Traveling through Central Italy, one can see many cities that have been built on the top of mountains rather than in a valley.
In past centuries, this was often for strategic reasons, in case of war.
Such cities were easier to defend.
As you travel in the valleys now, you can see these cities from afar.
This reminds us of Jesus' statements at Matthew 5, 14 to 16.
In verse 14, he said,
A city cannot be hid when located on the mountain.
Jesus also said,
You are the light of the world.
People light a lamp and set it not under a basket,
but on a lamp stand and it shines on all those in the house.
Likewise, let your light shine before men.
In ancient Israel, oil lamps illuminated the homes,
and the oil lamp was often kept burning throughout the night.
Light is used in the Bible in a figurative way.
Sometimes it is associated with truth.
Some 43 verse 3 says,
Send out your light and your truth.
May these lead me.
May they guide me to your holy mountain and to your grand tabernacle.
Similarly, light is associated with God's Word.
Some 19 verse 105 says,
Your Word is a lamp to my foot and a light for my path.
Proverbs 6, 23 reads,
The commandment is a lamp and the law is a light.
Also, progressively righteous conduct is compared to light.
Proverbs 4, 18 says,
But the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light
that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight.
Even people are compared to light.
Remember, Jesus said,
You are the light of the world.
So it is we as individuals that become the light of the world by what we do.
This is in harmony with His statement at John 8 verse 12,
I am the light of the world.
How do we let the light shine?
First, many understand that it means preaching the good news.
Well, this is certainly one very important way of letting the light shine.
Certainly, preaching and teaching is a fine work.
To the Romans, Paul wrote in the Romans 15 verse 16,
I am engaging in the holy work of the good news of God.
But preaching is not the only way to let the light shine.
What other ways can we let our light shine?
When Jesus said, Let your light shine,
He was not specifically referring to preaching,
but to doing good to others by neighborly love.
He said in verse 16 of Matthew chapter 5,
So that the people may see you find works
and give glory to your Father who is in the heavens.
Jesus said that it is by fine works that will let our light shine.
This is in line with Isaiah 58 verses 7 and 8,
where it says,
It is to share your bread with the hungry,
to bring the poor and homeless into your house,
to close someone naked when you see him,
and not to turn your back on your own flesh.
Then your light will shine through like the dawn.
Jesus as the light of the world did both.
He led his light shine by means of preaching,
but he also did so by means of doing fine works,
doing good to others.
Like Jesus, we let the light shine also by our Christian conduct.
Jesus kept perfect balance.
We too need to balance our preaching with doing good to others
and displaying Christian conduct.
Jehovah's Witnesses everywhere are known for their honesty.
They imitate the Apostle Paul who said at Hebrews 13, 18,
We trust we have an honest conscience
as we wish to conduct ourselves honestly in all things.
They appreciate that such conduct gives glory to Jehovah God,
as Jesus said.
Jehovah is the best example.
In Eden, he proclaimed the good news that Satan would be crushed,
resulting in paradise restored to earth.
He proclaimed the good news to Abraham,
that through Abraham all the nations will be blessed.
But besides declaring the good news,
he also constantly does good to mankind.
At Acts chapter 14 verse 16 and 17,
to people in Listera,
Asia Minor, Paul and Barnabas said,
In past generations,
he permitted all the nations to go on in their ways,
although he did not leave himself without witness,
in that he did good,
giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons,
satisfying you with food and filling your hearts with gladness.
Jesus is a perfect example as well.
Jesus not only preached and taught,
but he also did good to others.
He healed the lame, the blind, and the demon possessed.
Acts 10.38 says,
He went through the land doing good
and healing all those oppressed by the devil,
because God was with him.
On one occasion, after preaching to a crowd,
Jesus twice performed the miracle of feeding thousands
with some fish and a few loaves of bread.
He did not stop at preaching to the crowds.
He did good to them by giving them food.
We can also imitate him by giving food to those who are hungry.
Can you children also do good to other children,
besides preaching to them?
Yes, perhaps you can share some snacks with others
that might not have brought any to school,
or whose parents are too poor to provide them with such.
Or perhaps you have a nice piece of clothing
that has become too small for you to wear.
Perhaps you can give it as a gift to someone in your class
or school that might have a need for it.
Let's go back to letting our light shine
by showing neighborly love.
Let's first consider good works in the congregation.
Many brothers let their light shine today
when they visit sick brothers and sisters,
encourage the depressed and support the week.
In Hebrews 1350, the Apostle Paul compares our public declaration
of Jehovah's name to a sacrifice.
He says, through him,
let us always offer to God a sacrifice of praise,
that is, the fruit of lips that make public declaration to His name.
That includes preaching.
However, in the very next verse, verse 16,
he speaks of something else as also being a sacrifice,
besides preaching.
He says, called,
do not forget the doing of good
and to share what you have in a material way with others.
For God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
Tabitha, also called Dorcas,
is mentioned in the Bible in a positive way,
not necessarily for her zeal for preaching,
but for making garments for others,
acts of neighborly love.
Acts 936 says,
she abounded in good deeds
and gifts of mercy that she was making.
She shared material things with others.
Also today, many abound in good deeds,
other than preaching,
we want to commend them all for letting their light shine.
1 Timothy 5, 9 and 10 speaks of widows,
having a reputation for fine works.
If she practiced hospitality,
if she assisted the afflicted,
if she devoted herself to every good work,
there is not just one type of good work,
not just preaching.
We have many widows and other sisters
that have the reputation for fine works of different sorts.
We want to commend them all.
We can also show neighborly love to those in need
in times of disaster.
Again, the field ministry
is not the only ministry for Christians.
It is also relief ministry.
Assisting others materially
is a fine work and ministry.
When Christians in Judea
became impoverished,
relief campaigns were organized.
Of the Macedonian Christians
in the first century,
it is said in 2 Corinthians 8.4,
they on their own initiative
kept earnestly begging us
for the privilege of kindly giving
prayer in the relief ministry,
Greek Diaconia,
for the holy ones.
Just as preaching glorifies Jehovah,
Paul goes on to say that this relief ministry
glorifies God.
2 Corinthians 9.13 says
through the proof that this relief ministry
gives they glorify God.
As we approach the great tribulation,
we do well to practice sharing things with others,
as this may help them to survive
the great tribulation.
Another area of neighborly love
is participation in the construction
of kingdom halls, assembly halls,
remote translation offices
and branch offices.
The construction of these
is a holy ministry or sacred service.
One pioneer said,
I have now been a regular pioneer
for more than 20 years.
I have kept myself busy in many avenues
of the ministry,
serving with the need is greater,
helping with kingdom hall construction,
and assisting with disaster relief work.
Just as preaching is holy service,
so is participation in construction
of kingdom halls.
The organized to do Jehovah's will,
book says, quote,
the construction of kingdom halls
and assembly halls is a form of sacred service.
And then it asks,
are you in a position to assist
in this aspect of sacred service?
Serving in battle homes
is also an avenue of the ministry.
Therefore, if one's share in preaching
and teaching is somewhat limited
because of serving full-time
in other avenues of holy service
or ministry, one does not have to have
the bad conscience.
Through these other forms of the ministry,
one is letting his light shine.
We can also let our light shine
by displaying neighborly love toward non-witnesses.
In Jesus' illustration
of the merciful Samaritan,
he was emphatic
that even though one is living at a distance
or is not a relative or an associate,
the real neighbor is the one
who will exercise the love and kindness
to another that the Scriptures command.
Jesus taught others not only to preach
but also to do good to them
in a practical way,
motivated by love and compassion.
In that famous parable of the neighborly Samaritan,
the Samaritan took care of a Jew
that was robbed and injured.
He treated his wounds,
he took him to an inn
and paid for his care for a couple of days.
This parable touches many so
that they think
that this event actually happened.
It did not.
It was a parable,
but a very effective one.
A man quoted the Scripture to Jesus
that one should love Jehovah
with his whole heart
but also one's neighbor.
The man then asked Jesus,
who is my neighbor?
Greek, please see on.
Jesus ended the parable by saying,
go and do the same yourself.
We also want to do good to neighbors in need,
whether they have a false religion
or no religion.
We want to be as compassionate
as the merciful Samaritan in the parable.
Do we not?
Neighborly love was illustrated
in the case of an elderly man
who wrote to a local paper
about Mr. and Mrs. Nice Guy.
He explained that his neighbors
had been kind to him
when his wife was dying.
Since she passed away,
they have been super, he wrote.
Since then, they have adopted me,
doing all kinds of chores
and helping to solve the problems
of a 74-year-old retiree.
What makes all this even more unusual
is that they are black?
I'm white.
They are Jehovah's Witnesses.
I'm a drop-out Catholic.
When a hurricane hit an island years ago,
a lady who had her house cleaned
by a witness team said,
you have been coming to my door
for a long time,
and I thought of you as good neighbors,
but this expression of neighborly love
shows me what your organization is about.
When a hurricane hit the southern United States,
a tree fell on the rooftop
of an elderly lady's home.
She called the company
to find out how much they would charge
for taking the tree off and cutting it up.
She was told $1,000.
She did not have that money available.
Later, brothers from another state
came with their chainsaws
to help our brothers living on the same street.
They also took down the tree
of the elderly lady's house for free.
A newspaper then wrote,
many don't like Jehovah's Witnesses
when they go from house to house with the Bible,
but when they go from house to house
with a chainsaw, they do like it.
Returning from a trip,
a brother and his family
in a Latin country,
where a few miles away from home
when they saw a terrible automobile
accident on the highway.
They stopped to offer assistance.
One of the drivers involved, a doctor,
asked them to take his pregnant wife
and two small daughters
to the nearest hospital for treatment
since police wanted to question him.
The brother did so,
and then the brother returned
to the scene of the accident
to see what further aid he could render.
He told the doctor
that he did not need to worry
about his wife and children
for he would take care of them.
With grateful tears in his eyes,
he then turned his valuables
over to the brother for safekeeping.
The brother and his family
took the man's family home
with them and cared for them
for several days.
The doctor promised to study the Bible
in his hometown,
and he said that if his wife
gave birth to a son,
he would be named after the brother.
Two years later,
the brother visited the family.
They were studying the Bible,
and their little boy was named after the brother.
Loving one's neighbor is most important
because it is listed
as the second greatest
commandment in the Bible
after loving Jehovah.
When we do good to others,
the motive for doing so
should not be just to have a better chance
to preach to them thereafter.
It should come naturally to Christians
to do good to others.
We want to do good,
whether we can preach to them
thereafter or not.
We want to imitate our loving Heavenly Father
in doing the right
and the loving thing.
How about this one?
Showing neighborly love to opposers.
Suppose you have an opposing neighbor.
As you are driving down the road,
you see that his car broke down,
and there he is at the roadside.
What are you going to do?
Pass by, pretending not to have seen him,
or will you help if you can
as suggested by the principle
in the parable of the merciful Samaritan?
This is in line with Jesus' statement
in Luke 633-35.
And if you do good to those
doing good to you,
of what credit is this to you?
Even the sinners do the same.
Then he said,
continue to love your enemies
and to do good.
Even our enemies are our neighbors.
We may not love them
in the sense of being fond of them,
in Greek filia,
but in the sense of principled love
in Greek agapi.
Even if we have to suffer
or are being persecuted,
we continue to show neighborly love.
First Peter 4, 19 states,
so then let those who are suffering
in harmony with the will of God
keep on entrusting themselves
to a faithful creator
while they are doing good.
Jehovah also does good,
not only to His servants,
but to good ones and bad ones,
giving them good things through nature.
In review, how do we let our light shine?
What fine works are we to produce?
How can we show neighborly love?
We do it by preaching,
by doing good to our brothers
in the congregation,
by supporting relief campaigns,
by doing good to non-witnesses,
including opposers.
We ran the sacred service also
by supporting theocratic construction projects,
and by serving at Bethel
for assembly halls.
All this is included in letting our light shine.
In the case of electrical light,
there could be blackouts
when everything comes to a halt or standstill.
In our case, there will never be a figurative blackout
because a second Thessalonians 3.13 says,
we will not give up in doing what is good.
Our good works cannot be overlooked,
just like a city on a mountain
cannot be overlooked.
They will not be overlooked
because we will continue to let our light shine
by multiple fine works, including preaching.
Our light conquers the darkness of this world
that is referred to in Isaiah 60 verse 2,
and our good works glorify Jehovah.